Let's look at the in-place upgrade process in greater detail.
In the demo I just went right to the clicky clicky as my friend
and a Pluralsight colleague Greg Shields says,
but now that we've done that and we have that process in our
heads let's look at some considerations.
Now in one way I modeled how not to do it for you by performing
the upgrade before showing you this stuff.
On the other hand, I thought it was important,
as your instructor, for you to see how it works initially,
and now you can apply these best practices,
so that as you go forward you'll keep the best practices in your mind first.
You want to make sure, first of all,
that the hardware on your system will support Windows 10,
and this means reading the system requirements published at Microsoft's website.
You want to look at the startup environment of your system.
Are you using the Legacy BIOS or the now standard UEFI firmware?
That's going to make a difference,
particularly if you want to take advantage of secure boot,
and BitLocker,
and a lot of these more contemporary security methods
that I don't think are optional, personally.
You're going to need UEFI firmware.
The good news is that any computer that's at least a handful
of years old should support UEFI boot, and again,
like I said, that will allow for drive encryption.
You also want to assess application compatibility.
You saw that the upgrade tool in Windows will perform some
rudimentary comparisons to look at drivers,
and applications, and flag you if there's a problem.
In the business world, though, you'll want to take a larger look at this,
and there's a whole suite of Microsoft tools that help you
evaluate applications for compatibility with Windows 10 or
whatever your target Windows version is.
Windows 10 Upgrade Advisor is a good example.
Now that used to be delivered as part of a KB.
The KB is a Windows update package, but as I said a couple minutes ago,
that window of free upgrade has passed,
so that's just largely for historical purposes.
The name of the Enterprise tool that you'd want,
if you are in a position where you're managing a whole bunch of systems,
and you want to make sure that there's not going to be any
glitches with your applications after the upgrade,
you'll want to download the free Application
Compatibility Toolkit or ACT from Microsoft.
Another best practice,
make sure that you've disabled antimalware before the upgrade takes place,
and that's just so the antimalware scanner that is,
doesn't try to insert itself into the process.
As you can imagine,
the antimalware scanner is going to freak out when it sees a new operating system trying to update boot files and stuff like that.